Name

dFdx, dFdy — return the partial derivative of an argument with respect to x or
y

Declaration

genType dFdx(  genType p);

 

genType dFdy(  genType p);

 

genType dFdxCoarse( genType p);

 

genType dFdyCoarse( genType p);

 

genType dFdxFine(  genType p);

 

genType dFdyFine(  genType p);

 

Parameters

p

    Specifies the expression of which to take the partial derivative.

Description

Available only in the fragment shader, these functions return the partial
derivative of expression p with respect to the window $x$ coordinate (for
dFdx*) and $y$ coordinate (for dFdy*).

dFdxFine and dFdyFine calculate derivatives using local differencing based on
on the value of p for the current fragment and its immediate neighbor(s).

dFdxCoarse and dFdyCoarse calculate derivatives using local differencing based
on the value of p for the current fragment's neighbors, and will possibly, but
not necessarily, include the value for the current fragment. That is, over a
given area, the implementation can compute derivatives in fewer unique
locations than would be allowed for the corresponding dFdxFine and dFdyFine
functions.

dFdx returns either dFdxCoarse or dFdxFine. dFdy returns either dFdyCoarse or
dFdyFine. The implementation may choose which calculation to perform based upon
factors such as performance or the value of the API
GL_FRAGMENT_SHADER_DERIVATIVE_HINT hint.

Expressions that imply higher order derivatives such as dFdx(dFdx(n)) have
undefined results, as do mixed-order derivatives such as dFdx(dFdy(n)). It is
assumed that the expression p is continuous and therefore, expressions
evaluated via non-uniform control flow may be undefined.

{$pipelinestall}{$examples}

Version Support

                                   OpenGL Shading Language Version
   Function Name     1.10 1.20 1.30 1.40 1.50 3.30 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50
dFdx                 ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔
dFdy                 ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔
dFdxCoarse,
dFdxFine,            -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    ✔
dFdyCoarse, dFdyFine

See Also

fwidth, glHint

Copyright

Copyright © 2011-2014 Khronos Group. This material may be distributed subject
to the terms and conditions set forth in the Open Publication License, v 1.0, 8
June 1999. http://opencontent.org/openpub/.

