Name

gl_FragCoord — contains the window-relative coordinates of the current fragment

Declaration

in vec4 gl_FragCoord ;

Description

Available only in the fragment language, gl_FragCoord is an input variable that
contains the window relative coordinate (x, y, z, 1/w) values for the fragment.
If multi-sampling, this value can be for any location within the pixel, or one
of the fragment samples. This value is the result of fixed functionality that
interpolates primitives after vertex processing to generate fragments. The z
component is the depth value that would be used for the fragment's depth if no
shader contained any writes to gl_FragDepth.

gl_FragCoord may be redeclared with the additional layout qualifier identifiers
origin_upper_left or pixel_center_integer. By default, gl_FragCoord assumes a
lower-left origin for window coordinates and assumes pixel centers are located
at half-pixel centers. For example, the (x, y) location (0.5, 0.5) is returned
for the lower-left-most pixel in a window. The origin of gl_FragCoord may be
changed by redeclaring gl_FragCoord with the origin_upper_left identifier. The
values returned can also be shifted by half a pixel in both x and y by
pixel_center_integer so it appears the pixels are centered at whole number
pixel offsets. This moves the (x, y) value returned by gl_FragCoord of (0.5,
0.5) by default to (0.0, 0.0) with pixel_center_integer.

If gl_FragCoord is redeclared in any fragment shader in a program, it must be
redeclared in all fragment shaders in that program that have static use of
gl_FragCoord. Redeclaring gl_FragCoord with any accepted qualifier affects only
gl_FragCoord.x and gl_FragCoord.y. It has no affect on rasterization,
transformation or any other part of the OpenGL pipline or language features.

{$pipelinestall}{$examples}

Version Support

                            OpenGL Shading Language Version
Variable Name 1.10 1.20 1.30 1.40 1.50 3.30 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50
gl_FragCoord  ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔

See Also

gl_FragCoord

Copyright

Copyright © 2011-2014 Khronos Group. This material may be distributed subject
to the terms and conditions set forth in the Open Publication License, v 1.0, 8
June 1999. http://opencontent.org/openpub/.

