Name

gl_PointSize — contains size of rasterized points, in pixels

Declaration

gl_PointSize is a member of the gl_PerVertex named block:

    out gl_PerVertex {
        vec4 gl_Position;
        float gl_PointSize;
        float gl_ClipDistance[];
    };

Description

In the vertex, tessellation evaluation and geometry languages, a single global
instance of the gl_PerVertex named block is available and its gl_PointSize
member is an output that receives the intended size of the point to be
rasterized, in pixels. It may be written at any time during shader execution.
If GL_PROGRAM_POINT_SIZE is enabled, gl_PointSize is used to determine the size
of rasterized points, otherwise it is ignored by the rasterization stage.

In the tessellation control language, the gl_PerVertex named block is used to
construct an array, gl_out[], whose members become available as inputs to the
subsequent tessellation evaluation shader.

The value of gl_PointSize (or the gl_PointSize member of the gl_out[] array, in
the case of the tessellation control shader) is undefined after the vertex,
tessellation control, and tessellation evaluation shading stages if the
corresponding shader executable does not write to gl_PointSize. It is also
undefined after the geometry processing stage if the geometry shader executable
calls EmitVertex without having written gl_PointSize since the last call to
EmitVertex (or hasn't written it at all).

In the tessellation control, tessellation evaluation and geometry languages,
the gl_PerVertex named block is used to construct an array, gl_in[] of
per-vertex or per-control point inputs whose content represents the
corresponding outputs written by the previous stage.

{$pipelinestall}{$examples}

Version Support

                                   OpenGL Shading Language Version
   Variable Name     1.10 1.20 1.30 1.40 1.50 3.30 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50
gl_PointSize (vertex ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔
shader)
gl_PointSize         -    -    -    -    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔
(geometry shader)
gl_PointSize
(tessellation        -    -    -    -    -    -    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔
evaluation shader)

See Also

gl_Position, gl_ClipDistance

Copyright

Copyright © 2011-2014 Khronos Group. This material may be distributed subject
to the terms and conditions set forth in the Open Publication License, v 1.0, 8
June 1999. http://opencontent.org/openpub/.

