Name

gl_Position — contains the position of the current vertex

Declaration

gl_Position is a member of the gl_PerVertex named block:

    out gl_PerVertex {
        vec4 gl_Position;
        float gl_PointSize;
        float gl_ClipDistance[];
    };

Description

In the vertex, tessellation evaluation and geometry languages, a single global
instance of the gl_PerVertex named block is available and its gl_Position
member is an output that receives the homogeneous vertex position. It may be
written at any time during shader execution. The value written to gl_Position
will be used by primitive assembly, clipping, culling and other fixed
functionality operations, if present, that operate on primitives after vertex
processing has occurred.

In the tessellation control language, the gl_PerVertex named block is used to
construct an array, gl_out[], whose gl_Position members hold the homogeneous
control point position, which become available as inputs to the subsequent
tessellation evaluation shader.

The value of gl_Position (or the gl_Position member of the gl_out[] array, in
the case of the tessellation control shader) is undefined after the vertex,
tessellation control, and tessellation evaluation shading stages if the
corresponding shader executable does not write to gl_Position. It is also
undefined after the geometry processing stage if the geometry shader executable
calls EmitVertex without having written gl_Position since the last call to
EmitVertex (or hasn't written it at all).

In the tessellation control, tessellation evaluation and geometry languages,
the gl_PerVertex named block is used to construct an array, gl_in[] of
per-vertex or per-control point inputs whose content represents the
corresponding outputs written by the previous stage.

{$pipelinestall}{$examples}

Version Support

                            OpenGL Shading Language Version
Function Name 1.10 1.20 1.30 1.40 1.50 3.30 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50
gl_Position   ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔

Versions 1.10 to 1.40 - vertex shader only.

Versions 1.50 to 3.30 - vertex and geometry shaders only.

See Also

gl_PointSize, gl_ClipDistance

Copyright

Copyright © 2011-2014 Khronos Group. This material may be distributed subject
to the terms and conditions set forth in the Open Publication License, v 1.0, 8
June 1999. http://opencontent.org/openpub/.

