Name

gl_PrimitiveID — contains the index of the current primitive

Declaration

// In tessellation control, tessellation evaluation, and
// fragment shaders

in int gl_PrimitiveID ;

// In geometry shaders

out int gl_PrimitiveID ;

Description

gl_PrimitiveID is a tessellation control, tessellation evaluation and fragment
language input variable. For the tessellation control and tessellation
evaluation languages, it holds the number of primitives processed by the shader
since the current set of rendering primitives was started. The first primitive
processed by the drawing command is numbered zero and the primitive ID counter
is incremented after every individual point, line or triangle primitive is
processed. For triangles drawn in point or line mode, the primitive ID counter
is incremented only once, even through multiple points or lines may actually be
drawn. Restarting a primitive topology using the primitive restart index has no
effect on the primitive ID counter.

In the geometry language, gl_PrimitiveID is an output variable that is passed
to the corresponding gl_PrimitiveID input variable in the fragment shader. If
no geomery shader is present then gl_PrimitiveID in the fragment language
behaves identically as it would in the tessellation control and evaluation
languages. If a geometry shader is present but does not write to
gl_PrimitiveID, the value of gl_PrimitiveID in the fragment shader is
undefined.

{$pipelinestall}{$examples}

Version Support

                                   OpenGL Shading Language Version
   Function Name     1.10 1.20 1.30 1.40 1.50 3.30 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50
gl_PrimitiveID
(Fragment and        -    -    -    -    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔
Geometry Languages)
gl_PrimitiveID
(Tessellation
Control and          -    -    -    -    -    -    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔
Evaluation
Languages)

See Also

gl_InstanceID, gl_VertexID, gl_PrimitiveIDIn

Copyright

Copyright © 2011-2014 Khronos Group. This material may be distributed subject
to the terms and conditions set forth in the Open Publication License, v 1.0, 8
June 1999. http://opencontent.org/openpub/.

