Name

gl_SampleMask — specifies the sample coverage mask for the current fragment

Declaration

out int gl_SampleMask[] ;

Description

gl_SampleMask is a fragment language output array that may be used to set the
sample mask for the fragment being processed. Coverage for the current fragment
will become the logical AND of the coverage mask and the output gl_SampleMask.
That is, setting a bit in gl_SampleMask to zero will cause the corresponding
sample to be considered uncovered for the purposes of multisample fragment
operations. However, setting sample mask bits back to one will never enable
samples not covered by the original primitive. Bit B of mask gl_SampleMask[M]
corresponds to sample 32 * M + B. This array must be sized in the fragment
shader either implicitly or explicitly to be the same size as the
implementation-dependent maximum sample-mask (as an array of 32-bit elements),
determined by the maximum number of samples. If the fragment shader statically
assigns a value to gl_SampleMask, the sample mask will be undefined for any
array elements of any fragment shader invocation that fails to assign a value.
If a shader does not statically assign a value to gl_SampleMask, the sample
mask has no effect on the processing of a fragment. If the fragment shader is
being evaluated at any frequency other than per-fragment, bits within the
sample mask not corresponding to the current fragment shader invocation are
ignored.

{$pipelinestall}{$examples}

Version Support

                            OpenGL Shading Language Version
Variable Name 1.10 1.20 1.30 1.40 1.50 3.30 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50
gl_SampleMask -    -    -    -    -    -    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔

See Also

gl_SampleMaskIn, gl_SampleID, gl_SamplePosition, gl_FragCoord

Copyright

Copyright © 2011-2014 Khronos Group. This material may be distributed subject
to the terms and conditions set forth in the Open Publication License, v 1.0, 8
June 1999. http://opencontent.org/openpub/.

