Name

gl_ViewportIndex — contains the index of the viewport to be used in viewport
transformation and scissoring

Declaration

// In geometry shaders

out int gl_ViewportIndex ;

// In fragment shaders

in int gl_ViewportIndex ;

Description

In the geometry language, gl_ViewportIndex is used to specify the index of the
viewport to which the next primitive emitted from the shader should be drawn.
Primitives generated by the geometry shader will undergo viewport
transformation and scissor testing using the viewport transformation and
scissor rectangle selected by the value of gl_ViewportIndex. The viewport index
used will come from one of the vertices in the primitive being shaded. However,
which vertex the viewport index comes from is implementation-defined, and so it
is recommended to use the same viewport index for all vertices of a primitive.
If a geometry shader does not assign a value to gl_ViewportIndex, viewport
transform and scissor rectangle zero will be used. If a geometry shader
statically assigns a value to gl_ViewportIndex and there is a path through the
shader that does not assign a value to gl_ViewportIndex, the value of
gl_ViewportIndex is undefined for executions of the shader that take that path.

In the fragment language, gl_ViewportIndex will have the same value that was
written to the output variable gl_ViewportIndex in the geometry stage. If the
geometry stage does not dynamically assign to gl_ViewportIndex, the value of
gl_ViewportIndex in the fragment shader will be undefined. If the geometry
stage makes no static assignment to gl_ViewportIndex, the fragment stage will
read zero. Otherwise, the fragment stage will read the same value written by
the geometry stage, even if that value is out of range. If a fragment shader
contains a static access to gl_ViewportIndex, it will count against the
implementation defined limit for the maximum number of inputs to the fragment
stage.

{$pipelinestall}{$examples}

Version Support

                                  OpenGL Shading Language Version
   Function Name    1.10 1.20 1.30 1.40 1.50 3.30 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50
gl_ViewportIndex    -    -    -    -    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔    ✔
(geometry stage)
gl_ViewportIndex    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    ✔    ✔    ✔
(fragment stage)

See Also

gl_Layer

Copyright

Copyright © 2011-2014 Khronos Group. This material may be distributed subject
to the terms and conditions set forth in the Open Publication License, v 1.0, 8
June 1999. http://opencontent.org/openpub/.

